[DOCU-3152] Upstream and Kong Latency (#5495)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/konnect/analytics/use-cases/latency.md

---
title: Diagnosing Latency Issues
content_type: tutorial
book: use-cases
chapter: 2
---

Custom reporting in {{site.konnect_saas}} gives you the power to monitor your API data in detail and export that data to CSV. 
Let's go through some example situations where you could leverage custom reports.

> In this scenario, Ryan is a platform owner who supervises the implementation and maintenance of the API Gateway infrastructure that governs all APIs at ACME. A few minutes ago, he received an email that stated that the response latency seemed to be very high and and causing a bad customer experience. To better understand the source of the delays, Ryan decides to create two reports to compare the **average upstream** and **latency** for all traffic to the production servers in the last hour.

Reviewer: > compare the **average upstream** and **latency**

should be

> compare the average upstream and Kong latency

Author: Added

> In this scenario, Ryan is a platform owner who supervises the implementation and maintenance of the API Gateway infrastructure that governs all APIs at ACME. A few minutes ago, he received an email that stated that the response latency seemed to be very high and and causing a bad customer experience. To better understand the source of the delays, Ryan decides to create two reports to compare the **average upstream** and **latency** for all traffic to the production servers in the last hour.

Author: ```suggestion
In this scenario, Ryan is a platform owner who supervises the implementation and maintenance of the API Gateway infrastructure that governs all APIs at ACME. A few minutes ago, he received an email that stated that the response latency seemed to be very high and and causing a bad customer experience. To better understand the source of the delays, Ryan decides to create two reports to compare the **average upstream** and **Kong latency** for all traffic to the production servers in the last hour.
```

> In this scenario, Ryan is a platform owner who supervises the implementation and maintenance of the API Gateway infrastructure that governs all APIs at ACME. A few minutes ago, he received an email that stated that the response latency seemed to be very high and and causing a bad customer experience. To better understand the source of the delays, Ryan decides to create two reports to compare the **average upstream** and **Kong latency** for all traffic to the production servers in the last hour.

Reviewer 2: > To better understand the source of the delays, Ryan decides to create two reports to compare the **average upstream** and **Kong latency** for all traffic to the production servers in the last hour.

Could be me, but I wasn't sure how Ryan decided that those were the two  metrics he wanted to measure based on his scenario.

Reviewer 2: Also, nitpick, but for the name, could we use one from Google's list in the style guide? https://developers.google.com/style/examples#example-person-names

Reviewer: Kong and Upstream latency are the most important to determine where a performance bottleneck might be. Kong allows you to understand the Kong Gateway latency where as Upstream is the actual API that Kong proxies. It's very well known as a platform admin to which metrics you need to look into to understand both.

> In this scenario, Tal is a platform owner who supervises the implementation and maintenance of the API Gateway infrastructure that governs all APIs at ACME. A few minutes ago, he received an email that stated that the response latency seemed to be very high and and causing a bad customer experience. To better understand the source of the delays, Tal decides to create two reports to compare the **average upstream** and **Kong latency** for all traffic to the production servers in the last hour.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this scenario, Tal is a platform owner who supervises the implementation and maintenance of the API Gateway infrastructure that governs all APIs at ACME. A few minutes ago, they received an email that stated that the response latency seemed to be very high and and causing a bad customer experience. To better understand the source of the delays, Tal decides to create two reports to compare the **average upstream** and **Kong latency** for all traffic to the production servers in the last hour.
```

## Build reports 

> Building custom reports is done by navigating to {% konnect_icon analytics %} **Analytics** in the {{site.konnect_short_name}} menu, then **Reports**. This brings you to a list of all custom reports in the organization. From here, click **New Report** to get started.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can build a custom report by navigating to {% konnect_icon analytics %} **Analytics** in the {{site.konnect_short_name}} menu, then **Reports**. This brings you to a list of all custom reports in the organization. From here, click **New Report** to get started.
```

### Kong latency

For the Kong latency report, Ryan configures the following:

* **Name**: Production - Kong Latency (last hour)
* **Chart type**: Line chart

> * **Date/Time**: Last Hour

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Date/Time**: Last hour
```

* **Chart type**: Line chart
* **Select a metric**: Kong Latency (avg)
* **Group by**: Service
* **Choose Granularity**: Minutely

> Then he adds a filter to filter by the individual Runtime Group 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, he adds a filter to filter by the individual runtime group:
```

Why did he decide to filter by the runtime group instead of something else?

Reviewer: Because the email is about slowness in the production environment which the Runtime Group `prod` represents. Using Runtime Groups to seperate environments is common.

> Then, he adds a filter to filter by the individual runtime group:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, they add a filter to filter by the individual runtime group:
```

* **Filter by**: Runtime Group
* **Operator**: In
* **Value**: prod 

![Production - Kong Latency (last hour)](/assets/images/docs/konnect/custom-reports/latency/kong-latency.png){:.image-border}

> > _**Figure 2:** Line chart showing the latency over the last hour._

Reviewer 2: I think that this image needs to be swapped with the other one?

### Upstream latency

For the Upstream latency report, Tal configures the following:

* **Name**: Production - Upstream Latency (last hour)
* **Chart type**: Line chart
* **Date/Time**: Last Hour
* **Chart type**: Line chart
* **Select a metric**: Upstream Latency (avg)
* **Group by**: Service
* **Choose Granularity**: Minutely

> Then he adds a filter to filter by the individual Runtime Group 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then they add a filter to filter by the individual Runtime Group 
```

* **Filter by**: Runtime Group
* **Operator**: In
* **Value**: prod 

![Production - Upstream Latency (last hour)](/assets/images/docs/konnect/custom-reports/latency/upstream-latency.png){:.image-border}

> > _**Figure 1:** Line chart showing the upstream latency over the last hour._

Reviewer 2: Same note here about swapping images. Maybe you could add a sentence to the figure to describe what the lines in the chart show, like how one spikes?

## Conclusion

> With the two reports, Ryan realizes that the Account API is having latency spikes that are impacting the overall response time. Because the platform has a latency of around 0.57ms, Ryan can rule out the platform as the source of the problem. In the reports Ryan sees a small second spike in the last hour, in combination with the Latency API latency spikes, Ryan will be able to use this to investigate the matter further.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the two reports, Ryan realizes that the Account API is having latency spikes that are impacting the overall response time. Because the platform has a latency of around 0.57ms, Ryan can rule out the platform as the source of the problem. In the reports, Ryan sees a small second spike in the last hour. In combination with the Latency API latency spikes, Ryan will be able to use this to investigate the matter further.
```
Is there anything else in particular that we could link users to so they know what other things they could do to continue investigating further?

Reviewer: You mean the Reference page?
